[Hosted on AWS] (Http://Ec2-35-165-133-148.us-west-2.compute.amazonaws.com)


First thing I did was go on AWS to create an EC2 instance to host my webpages. I set security groups to have all access, although this is bad for security, it made it easy to access the instance when I was developing. To test if my EC2 instance was running correctly, I used FileZilla and used the pem key from AWS to access the EC2 Public DNS as the Host to upload a test file, index.php.

Next, I needed to SSH into my EC2 instance to start Apache. I changed permission with ‘chmod’ and successful ssh’ed in. I ran the Linux commands given to us by the professor, but lots of the code didn’t work so I had to Google it to find out other commands that would install PHP, MySQL, and the other tools needed. I then needed to restart the Apache server and finally I typed in the public DNS in my web address bar to see that my test file was hosted successfully. 

Next, I needed to start my RDS MySQL relational database which was also on AWS. I again had to configure my Security Groups correctly so it connected back to my EC2 instance. I wrote a sample connection.php to test whether I can successfully connect my EC2 to my RDS. After correctly setting up the connection code in PHP, I was able to connect to my database.

Now I needed to upload my CSV file to RDS using phpMyAdmin. Before that, I edited my CSV file in Google sheets so there was only 1 row at the very top with column names and edited the column names to exclude numbers. I downloaded the XAMPP software for local hosting, and I started my Linux server and MySQL on it. I needed to connect it to RDS, so I had to change the config.inc.php file and added lines of code to add a second server that would connect to my RDS instance. After I correctly configured it, I was able to access my database in RDS from the localhost. The phpmyadmin interface made it easy for me to create a new table and import my csv file.

Now that my data was uploaded into my RDS, I was finally ready to write PHP code that would access data from my RDS and then display the contents. I first made the index.html template so there’s a form with a input field and submit button. On the form, I made a ‘POST’ request to my search.php file that would then check the user input, connect to the database, and retrieve data based on the user input. To make the code object-oriented, I made a Player class that stores all the information and created instances of that class that I pushed into an array for every player. Then, I would iterate through that array, and echo out the contents and style it nicely with CSS.
